## Welcome

No matter your role, problem solving is central to what you do. In this video,` Marc Metakis and Emily Yueh, Partners at McKinsey`, welcome you to the course and highlight the benefits of a structured approach.

`EMILY`: Hi, my name is Emily Yueh, and I'm a partner in the New York office of McKinsey, and a global leader within the healthcare and advanced industry sectors. Over the last 10-plus years I've loved serving our clients across a range of super-interesting and complex challenges, ranging from strategy, to organization, to transformations. I'm thrilled to be here with you today and delighted to be part of your core faculty.

`MARC`: So, my name is Marc Metakis. I'm incredibly excited to join Emily in this course in problem solving. I’ve been with McKinsey for over 10 years. I spend a lot of my time on capability building, particularly in the leadership and management space. But problem solving is one of the things I'm really passionate about. I love the way taking a very structured approach enables us to take a very ambiguous or complex problem and actually drive to an actionable insight. Problem solving is something that Emily and I both really enjoy, and we're excited to, in this course, talk about what is problem solving. And throughout this course you'll be learning from the two of us as well as some of our colleagues, alumni, and business leaders.

`EMILY`: Problem solving is something that we're all doing constantly in our day-to-day work. And hopefully in the course of this next few hours you're going to learn a couple of techniques, tools, to really take more deliberate choices about how you go about problem solving. And what's interesting is that problem solving, when done well, is not only more efficient, more practical, it actually hopefully gets you to a better answer and better outcome. And so ultimately, I think maybe a good place for us to start is to say what actually is problem-solving, Marc?

`MARC`: I think the question of what is problem solving is one that we hear a lot. I like to think of problem solving as the process by which we make decisions either for ourselves or with our teams. And ultimately, it's something we do every day, and in some cases, it involves a very long-term project. It could be over many weeks or many months, but in some case it's really problem solving in the moment. You're in a meeting, someone asks a question, and you need to decide, how am I going to figure this out and what am I going to do? I think for me, problem solving is both an art and science, and we're going to learn some techniques around how we can take a very structured approach to that. But a lot of it is in the application and the day to day.

But there's another question that I hear a lot, which is, what makes a good problem solver? I'd love to hear your perspective on that.

`EMILY`: I think great problem solving, to me, really is incredibly structured. And I think structured can mean a bunch of different things. Structured can mean that you have a deliberate approach in terms of how you think about breaking apart the problem. I think structure can also mean being very thoughtful about what you're going to tackle and what you're not going to tackle – in other words, being really 80-20. What's the 20% that's going to drive 80% of the value that you're going to actually see?

And then I think the third piece, to me, is really thinking about how you're going to actually implement it. And that's oftentimes, I think, a critical piece of problem solving that's missed out or overlooked. And so you need to be really thoughtful about who are the stakeholders? How are you going to roll this out? What is realistic? What are some of the common pitfalls? So being very structured end-to-end is one of the core tenets of being a good problem solver.
