## Why structure communications?

It is not enough just to have facts. We need to form them into a coherent message. Once you've identified the insights aligned with your audience and the purpose, consider the following questions: How would you structure the insight(s) for greatest impact? What context is necessary to provide for the insights to be understood? How might you use a story or anecdote to emphasize a key message?

In this video, Elizabeth Hioe, Akash Shah, and Mark Wiseman describe how a structured argument helps you move your audience to action.

## Video transcript

ELIZABETH HIOE: So the first thing we're going to start with is building your argument. Every argument needs a logical structure, and it needs to be airtight. Why does it matter? It matters, because if you don't have a logical, airtight structure, you'll lose your audience. And the point of any communication, and any argument in the communication, is to really have impact with your audience and drive them to some sort of action.

An example of when I've seen structured communication go wrong is with an executive that we've been working with. It's an industrial company that's going through a huge transformation. So, really large scale change, and he really needs everybody in the organization to be working towards the same goal. His communication style is really fantastic. He has just really great energy in his message, he has a ton of conviction, and really motivates his audience. But behind those techniques, the message itself is not structured. It was not a logical grouping of ideas and supporting arguments.

If I had to describe his communication style, I'd say he was all charisma, but no content. And what happened was, he found out later, everybody in his organization was working on different things. So, he asked us to go talk to his teams to find out what happened. And when we went, and we talked to everybody in the different organizations that report up into him, what we found is they all took away completely different things from his methods.

So, the risk that you run when you don't have a well structured argument, is that you don't control the message and the takeaways that your audience has. After we spoke to his team, and we learned that everybody had taken away such different messages, we actually went back to him and spent significant amount of time structuring his message. Structuring the arguments behind it. Really building a much more coherent, logical argument. And he then repeated his whole communication cascade. But this time, it actually motivated people to start moving to the same direction.

AKASH SHAH: In fact, there's only negative consequences when you don't have structure. I think the idea that you can be this rambling genius and still bring it all together, maybe you can, maybe if you're just that smart. But frankly, I think those days are numbered. We have less room for complexity in our day-to day-lives, given how complex it already is. And I think what the pyramid principle, or broadly structuring and putting the emphasis does, is it takes naturally complex things that we all do. Because the businesses we're all in deal with complex, difficult, you know, highly interlinked concepts, and make it as straightforward as possible for someone to absorb it. And more importantly, maybe to replay it.

MARK WISEMAN: Try and find a way to simplify, simplify, and simplify. And then further simplify the message that you're giving. And I think that that's one of the things that being a lawyer taught me. Is how to take an argument, or how to take some form of discourse and really distill it down to the core principles. And so, if you can be authentic and simple, generally people will understand what it is that you're trying to convey.

AKASH SHAH: And so, you know, my observation is in a world of investment banking, both on the capital market side as well as on the banking and advisory side. There's room for all of us to do more of this. So, whether you're the trader having the morning call with your trading group looking at the macro economic conditions, how they've changed overnight, and getting to the broad changes that have happened across your asset class, or affecting your asset class, and then going deep into the couple that are going to change the market pricing for that day. Whether it's, you're the sales guy. You're getting on the phone, you have a couple minutes to make the pitch to your counterparty, and you need to make it super simple because, you know what, he or she on the other side can't make the call by themselves. And they're going to have to go back to others, so how do you make it easy for them to understand, but more importantly, make it easy for them to go back and get the approvals that they need.

Whether you're the banker getting on that quick follow-up call after a pitch, trying to reinforce a few messages, and being able to put it in a way that really makes it simple, that takes that 80 page pitch document and distills it, once again, down to a few clear thoughts. There's so many occasions where these things matter, and my personal feeling is that it's always worth the slightly incremental investment to get that right before you get on that phone. Before you take that meeting. And in fact, even if it shortens the amount of time you get with the other person, that tradeoff is always worth it.
