## Insights: the driver of action

In our EPIC journey, we started with Empathy to build a deeper understanding of what the other person thinks, feels, needs, and wants. We defined a Purpose that includes what you and the other person want to get out of the interaction. Next, it’s important to determine the Insight you will bring to the interaction. Kate helps us understand what exactly is an insight and underscores the importance of insights as the driver of action in conversation.


## Video transcript

KATE AQUILA: Last time we explored purpose, and what it means to define a purpose that includes both your needs and your audience. Today, we're going to be looking at insight, the third part of EPIC. Insight is important for a lot of reasons. Can you imagine what it's like to communicate without insight? How terribly boring that must be. And what a waste of time. And I'm sure you're busy, just like everyone else is.

It is more critical than ever that we make the time count. That each interaction really matter. I think it's important that we differentiate insight from data and information. There is a lot of noise out there, and more than ever we are bombarded with facts, figures, news, everything. How do we sort the wheat from the chaff? What really does make an insight? We can think about data as just the raw material that we have; numbers, anecdotes, what have you. Information is something more, let's say, it's been slightly more prepared or massaged in a way. But what does it take to really get to an insight? An insight actually requires time and reflection, and drawing out a sort of so what. Why is this relevant? What is compelling about it? Why does it make a difference to your audience?

So let's maintain a very high bar for what we mean by insight as we go through this section. The different ways you can think about insight, as you work with the EPIC framework, is to ask yourself, what are the key insights that I want to bring to this meeting or interaction? You may have done a ton of work, a lot of analysis, but boiling the ocean is not helpful to bring to an interaction. You'll want to think about how you structure and synthesize those ideas into a compelling insight.

The second part is really around what storyline is going to convey your insights in the most compelling and persuasive way. There are a lot of techniques we can use for storytelling, and don't worry if you don't feel like you're naturally a good storyteller, it's a learned skill. Storytellers aren't born, they're made. Lastly, the choice you make about what kind of visual aids and media you use is also a source of insight. Because it can have a real impact on how your audience perceives the information, but also how they act on it. Today we will be looking at structuring, and how you can structure your message in a clear and compelling way. We will also explore the difference between summary and synthesis, which is critical to driving towards insight.
